--- 
layout: post
title: Simply P's
excerpt: ""
wordpress_id: 82
wordpress_url: http://www.mrnordstrom.com/2007/09/13/simply-ps/
---
Apparently, I have been tagged by Joanne. I'm really not into the world of personal blogging and to be honest, I rarely read blogs. I'm making an exception for her blog, <a href="http://j-amusement.blogspot.com/">The Laidback Buddhist</a>, because it's one of the few blogs I actually find interesting and enlightening. Anyhow, here's my seven Ps, as real as they get. And no, I'm not going to tag someone else because as I said, I don't read blogs. <p></p><strong>My Passion<p></p></strong>I love technology and the way it makes life easier. That's why I'm an <a href="http://www.appleare.com/">Apple fan</a>; they understand the core purpose of technology and designs accordingly. I also love motivating people to set high goals and take the necessary steps to achieve them. I love to make people happy. I love learning more about life. I love adventure, excitement and new experiences. I love coming up with ideas and setting them into motion.<p></p>When I'm looking at it like this, I guess my passion is to come up ideas that, with the aid of technology, motivates people and makes them happy, and then transform the idea into reality while at the same time have an exciting time and learn more about life. But then again, they also work separately.<p></p><strong>My Purpose<p></p></strong>Short and simple, innovation and change. If my life doesn't change the world, it has no meaning. That is the reality in which I live, because I see no other reason for being alive. This <a href="http://www.appleare.com/quotes">Steve Jobs quote</a> sums it up so elegantly:<p></p>???????We're here to make a dent in the universe. Otherwise, why even be here&rsquo;<p></p>But you see, I don't intend to just change things or create new things. I will better the world and make life easier for the people within it. Simplicity is a way of life that I will embrace and spread through everything I do, by expecting excellency from myself at all times.<p></p><strong>My Pursuit<p></p></strong>While chasing these goals, I will also inspire and motivate people to do what they love. I have a strong belief that the only way to truly excel is to do what you ultimately love. I will offer people the support they need to turn their dreams into goals. That is also the only way you will ever achieve great and genuine happiness; by pursuing what you love.<p></p>Of course, there are personal milestones. A well designed apartment dressed with technology that makes one appreciate life fully. Financial independence to let go of worries. A comfortable car. The ability to travel as I want, and experience new places and cultures. Last but perhaps most important, an understanding wife to love, that can challenge me as well as support me through all of my seemingly crazy endeavors.  <p></p>But in the end, when the last moment comes, the difference I have made is going to be the only thing left. <p></p><strong>My Position<p></p></strong>I'm as poor as I've made myself. I'm a brother to three younger sisters, two of which I rarely meet. I'm a boyfriend in a dysfunctional relationship. A son in a family that doesn't believe in reaching for the stars. A messed up child of a mother than doesn't speak to me. I'm a poor substitute of what I once was, but lost.<p></p>But I am very much determined.<p></p><strong>My Pummeling<p></p></strong>*Checking Apple's dictionary and thesaurus* Ah, alright then.<p></p>Depression and other people's disbelief. <p></p><strong>My Progress<p></p></strong>I'm doing well, considering people keep dragging me down. More importantly, my belief in myself keeps me going. I know exactly who I want to become and I'm constantly figuring out how. Persistence is the link between desire and realizing your goals, so I keep going. Not at all blindly; my vision is crystal clear. <p></p>Right now I'm only at the starting point of this journey, but I prefer not to think about that little fact. Patience has never been one of my strong sides.<p></p><strong>My Personality<p></p></strong>Descriptions of the <a href="http://www.personalitypage.com/ENTJ.html">ENTJ personality</a> are usually insanely accurate.
